So being able to write custom H TO MAIL elements is pretty cool.
I did mention though that web components is actually a broad term for a couple of specifications that
are built into modern browsers that make up that web components term custom HD hymnal elements is just
one part of that set of specifications.
It's one specification.
It's arguably the most important one because this defines a couple of features modern browsers exposed
to you and you can use these features in JavaScript then and you will also learn how to make it work
in older browsers and of course so you get this set of features that allows you to register your own
age HTML tags and define some basic logic behind that.
However this alone will not give you great web components and no important specification that makes
up the web components turn is the shadow Dom specification.
The shadow Dom is all about having a separate Dom a tree of Dom nodes behind your custom element that
is separated from the normal Dom.
This helps you for example with scoping your styles to a custom element so that styling is set up for
your custom element doesn't interfere with other parts of your application.
Really really useful templates and slots is another important part of the specification.
Your Custom element will in the end just be a combination of default H HTML elements because in the
end the browser only knows how to handle this but you can compose them and add styling and add javascript
logic to create more powerful widgets like the modal you saw and you will learn how it works throughout
the course.
Templates and slots are another important specification here because here you define this core structure
behind your element.
So you basically defined a template which is then rendered as a shadow Dom and slots are helpful for
exposing certain entry points like that title we use.
The last lecture does h1 tag.
We passed two slot title that allows us to pass dynamic content into our web component so that developers
using our Web components can use them in the set of features that are baked in.
And still if our components once that pass extra content into the component and you will learn all about
that throughout the course as well.
Now last but not least there's no specification you sometimes hear about when hearing about web components
and that is the H HTML imports specification that was meant to be a feature which allows you to import
H2 Mal files into h him l files so that you can define these templates for your components in H2 metal
fans that are dead import dynamically.
Now this is not continued anymore because the industry moved in a direction where we use javascript
for all of that and where we use modern build tools and JavaScript modules to import and export inside
of our JavaScript files and import the h t mail templates as string stair as well.
And this is also the approach you will see in this course and I will explain and show it there.
So it's just important to be aware of these three core features custom elements shadow DRM templates
and slots and we will dive deeply into them and learn all about them and how we use them for the course
of course.